h1. Mongoid Taggable

Mongoid Taggable provides some helpers to create taggable documents.

h2. Installation

You can simple install from rubygems:

bc. gem install mongoid_taggable

or in Gemfile:

bc. gem 'mongoid_taggable'

or as a Rails Plugin:

bc. script/plugin install git://github.com/wilkerlucio/mongoid_taggable.git

h2. Basic Usage

To make a document taggable you need to include @Mongoid::Taggable@ into your document:

bc.. class Post
  include Mongoid::Document
  include Mongoid::Taggable

  field :title
  field :content
end

p. And in your form:

bc.. <% form_for @post do |f| %>
  <p>
    <%= f.label :title %><br />
    <%= f.text_field :title %>
  </p>
  <p>
    <%= f.label :content %><br />
    <%= f.text_area :content %>
  </p>
  <p>
    <%= f.label :tags %><br />
    <%= f.text_field :tags %>
  </p>
  <p>
    <button type="submit">Send</button>
  </p>
<% end %>

p. In this case, the text fields for tags should receive the list of tags separated by comma (See below for how to change the separator).

p. Then your document will have the @tags@ and @tags_array@ getter and setter. @tags@ is as a plain string with tags separated by comma, and @tags_array@ an array representation.

h2. Finding Objects by Tag

p. Tagged models get a scope called @tagged_with@, @tagged_with_all@, and @tagged_with_any@:

bc.. MyModel.tagged_with('foo')
MyModel.published.tagged_with('foo').count
MyModel.tagged_with_all('foo', 'bar')
MyModel.tagged_with_all(['foo', 'bar'])
MyModel.tagged_with_any('foo', 'bar')
MyModel.tagged_with_any(['foo', 'bar'])

h2. Tags Indexing

This module will automatically create an index of tags and their counts for you after saving the document. This can be used for a tag cloud. See the following example to understand how to use it:

bc.. Post.create!(:tags => "food,ant,bee")
Post.create!(:tags => "juice,food,bee,zip")
Post.create!(:tags => "honey,strip,food")

Post.tags # will retrieve ["ant", "bee", "food", "honey", "juice", "strip", "zip"]
Post.tags_with_weight # will retrieve:
# [
#   ['ant', 1],
#   ['bee', 2],
#   ['food', 3],
#   ['honey', 1],
#   ['juice', 1],
#   ['strip', 1],
#   ['zip', 1]
# ]

p. If you don't want to use this feature, it is good to disable it to improve performance:

bc.. class Post
  include Mongoid::Document
  include Mongoid::Taggable

  disable_tags_index! # will disable index creation

  field :title
  field :content
end

h2. Changing default separator

To change the default separator you may call the @tags_separator@ class method:

bc.. class Post
  include Mongoid::Document
  include Mongoid::Taggable

  tags_separator ';' # will change tags separator to ;

  field :title
  field :content
end
